---
layout: languages
title:  Arabic
date:   2015-08-27 14:49:10
categories: languages
---

Arabic is the most widely-spoken and used language which is written from right to
left. Text in Arabic begins on the right side of the page, continues leftward,
and then continues on the line below.

## What does right-to-left design look like?

Typically websites that support right-to-left languages also have a right-to-left
design. On English versions of Wikipedia, the main logo, nav links, and language
lists appear on the left side of the page. On the Arabic version, these appear on
the right side of the page, where they will be seen first. The title of the article
is right-aligned to start on the right edge of the page.

## How can I set my page to support right-to-left?

To allow flexible web design, you can fix most right-to-left issues by adding the property dir="rtl" or dir="auto" on most sections. If you expect all of your content to be in a right-to-left language, you can add this to the html or body tag.

You can resolve remaining issues (for example, switching between margin-left and
  margin-right) by adding sections to a CSS stylesheet.

```css
.hover-button {
  margin-left: 100px;
}
body[dir="rtl"] .hover-button {
  margin-left: 0;
  margin-right: 100px;
}
```

## Social Media Standards

Research social media to see how posts typically look in right-to-left.
For example, an Arabic-language hashtag string begins with a hashtag, but renders
with the hashtag on the right of the word.
